Pheno Syx is the second daughter of the Syx family. Her parents are Osari and Isa Syx, her sister is Senna Syx. She was born in an airship city on the gas giant Onos. The Syx family is well known, as the family name is etched into colony airlocks on asteroids, on the airships islands floating in gas giants, and in the life support systems in the vacuum of space. Syx invented many advanced systems designed to keep humans alive in environments we were never meant to, and Syx is still the leading manufacturer of many of these systems. Due to this, Phe was born into incredible wealth. Despite this, she doesn't have a great relationship with her family. Her older sister (by 8 1/2 minutes) will inherit the Syx company, and her parents tried to encourage Phe to work for the company as a supervisor. Even as a child, she was much more interested in asking questions of the mechanics and engineers, and learning everything she could from them.. This is due in part to being born without legs, and having a fascination from a young age of her mechanical prosthetics. Her early life prosthetics were advanced pieces of hardware designed to mimic the human body as much as possible.

Phe eventually left her family business and got a job working as a mechanic for a shop, and dutifully worked hard and soaked up everything she could. She didn't need the money, but wanted to learn how machines functioned. She eventually built herself new legs, the much more blatantly mechanical ones she still uses today. One day, a group of Lancers came from the blink gate just off world, and one went to the shop she was working at for some repairs. She got to see a mech first hand, and became obsessed. She loved how they moved like she did, through mechanical means mimicking human form, mimicking life. She began her pursuit to pilot a mech of her own.

She signed up for a Union Auxiliaries training program, and went through the harsh elimination process. She got her leg in the door using her wealth and family name, but that holds no real long term sway with the Union Auxiliaries. Despite this, she proved herself valuable, and showed that she was more than an airheaded rich daughter that some wanted to make her out to be. She was extremely successful, and was rapidly promoted from one position to another, until she became a Sergeant for the Union Auxiliaries and took command of a first response team. She built herself a personal suit of armor designed for a person without legs, and did some custom work on her mech to suit her needs. She also used her mechanical skills to learn to develop a rudimentary NHP called HEM (Human Enough to Me) that she installed in a Saladin mech, which accompanies her on her missions. She achieved her dream of engineering and piloting a mech, and now will continue the walk with her mech wherever it should take her.

Phe also has a secret to her life that she is not aware of. She was actually the first born daughter of the Syx family, however she died at the young age of six due to a malfunction in one of the Syx safety systems of Onos. Osari and Isa wanted to cover it up, and had always prepared for the death of any of the family. They produced a flash clone and did a subjectivity override, however the override was edited so that the new Phe wouldn't know what had happened and reveal it to others, as the act was illegal. As often is the case with flash clones, it was defective, and formed without legs. They covered this up as well, and used their influence to change the birth records to indicate that Phe had been born without legs. Discouraged by the, "otherly," nature of the clone, they also changed the records to indicate that Senna was the first daughter, and Phe the second, so that Senna would inherit the family company.