Nicholas grew up with a large group family (multiple mothers and fathers) on a trading ship known as The Prophet's Fortune.  In his early years, Nick took up a special interest in the loader mechs and spent most of his time tinkering with spare parts and broken down pieces of machinery.  Eventually this lead him to being the go-to mechanic as he entered his late teens.  On a run of the mill trip to the outer edges of humanity, a group of pirates known as the Red Rock Raiders attacked his family's ship which subsequently crashed on an outer world that had been previously sieged by the Union.  He and the few surviving members of his family lasted for a short time until they succumbed to their injuries, leaving Nicholas alone on this abandoned and forgotten world.  Nicholas found a downed ship with an in-tact apocalypse cannon, and parts to allow him to build a somewhat functioning mech.  He worked for months, barely surviving on this harsh graveyard of forgotten ships to string together a working ship and load a military mech onto it.  Using the superior technology of his jury rigged "legitimate salvage" Union ship, Nicholas was able to track down the raiders that killed his family, and upon boarding their ship with his mech he proceeded to slaughter their entire crew with his salvaged weapon, just as they had done his family over a year ago.  The weapon proved too powerful for his control, and the intense heat and radiation caused irreparable damage to his eyes, blinding him permanently.

Shortly after the Union tracked down the ship he had salvaged and arrested him, blind as a bat floating in his mech a short distance from his salvaged ship.  Upon learning his story, and while they didn't fully approve of his actions, the Union recruited him for his unique talents in servicing mechs and technology with the promise  that they would return his mech and the apocalypse cannon to him when his license level permitted.  The Union granted him new eyes, eyes made of ceramic and metal improving his vision beyond anything he could imagine.  His training was grueling, the vacant metal eyes drawing all the wrong kinds of attention, but he successfully graduated at the top of his class.  The damage to his psyche cause by watching his family's slaughter still lingered.  Nicholas finds himself with an overbearing sense of justice and punishment, he is willing to go to any means necessary to avenge those who have been wronged.